---
layout: page
title: "About"
---

Because they offer powerful new ways to ask questions about social and cultural issues, data science and machine learning have rapidly gained recognition within the social sciences. These developments range from new methods of extracting information and identifying patterns to the ability to use new types of data to studying problems at much larger scales. This course will examine how data science has revolutionized the ways social scientists study culture, namely new tools for analyzing patterns in text data in different contexts and at different scales. More specifically, we will explore how these tools can be used to mine the meaning of text from sources such as posts on social media, transcripts of political debates, books, press releases, and more.

This is a hands-on, interactive course culminating in a social data science project designed by the student or a team of students. Most class sessions will be taught interactively using Jupyter Notebooks. Students will follow along with workshop-style lectures by using and modifying the provided Python code in real time to analyze data and visualize results. However, this is a course on \textbf{\textit{social}} data science, and we will also endeavor to engage with research findings and ideas emerging from social research on the topics we consider or from using the methods we employ. The course will cover topics such as gender and racial/ethnic stereotypes, workplace discrimination, climate change and the environmental movement, and lifestyles. Students will learn to explore text data with techniques such as word embeddings, topic models, and sentiment analysis, to visualize their results, and to scrape the web (where and when appropriate). Students will gain experience with base Python and tools from libraries useful for data science such as ``Empath``, ``Gensim``, ``NumPy``, ``Pandas``, ``Scikit-learn``, and ``spaCy``.
